Welcome back I hope you enjoyed the section 15 challenge.
I'm going to give you my solution here and we'll walk through it.
As always there is a lot of different ways to do this so if your solution is different from mine it's
probably just fine.
Some of the Section 15 workspace and the challenge solution project so I didn't change the account or
the savings account classes at all.
So why don't we start with a checking account class.
This is one of the new classes that we added.
So let me open up the checking account header file.
And let's go through this real quickly.
Now in this case the checking account doesn't add any new attributes right.
So a checking account is an account.
I chose to derive this from account because the checking account has the name and it's got a balance.
The only difference here is that when we withdraw we're doing a $1 and 50 Cent flat fee check fee.
OK.
So other than that it's really very very similar.
We've got our consecrations here which are just our compile time constants here we've got our constructor
that expects a name and if it's not supplied we'll use our default here a balance and that's it right
there.
The PreCheck fee is not a per object thing.
This is a class thing.
So this is why it's a static cost expression.
If it was on a per account basis and obviously you'd want that to be an attribute and you'd want to
pass it into a constructor.
So we've got that we've got our withdraw method because we need to override the behavior for withdraw
to deal with the purchase fee.
The deposit method is fine.
We don't need to change that at all because the way we do deposits is the same way that an account does
a deposit.
Hopefully one of the things that you noticed when you derive these classes from existing classes is
the amount of code you have to write is really minimal in many cases right because all you're doing
is specializing.
The other thing we did here was we created that overloaded insertion operator that works with a checking
account that just makes it really easy to display those.
OK so that's it.
Let's take a look at the implementation.
And as you can see there's really very little code here.
First of all let's look at the constructor.
So there's my checking account constructor it expects the name and the balance and I need to initialize
the account part of me right because I'm derive from a count.
So here I'm invoking my base class constructor and it's the one that takes care of Naiman balance I'm
just passing it over.
And when this comes back we're initialized right at that point.
That's all and that's all we need for a constructor here.
Now what about the withdrawal method.
Well here we are definitely overriding the withdrawal method.
And so here's a withdraw method for the new class my checking account class.
It still expects an amount to withdraw and all we're doing is we're saying OK whatever that amount is.
I'm just adding the per check feel to it which is a dollar fifty in this case.
So whatever I want to withdraw I'm just adding the dollar 50 and then I'm letting the account class
do the withdrawal.
Just like we've done before.
And again I'm returning what it returns.
So if it fails I'll return false if it succeeds I'll return true.
And then the last thing we'll do is our output operator here our insertion OPERATOR This time it expects
a checking account and actually we could have used used a regular account here right because we're not
really adding anything in this class so even if it got sliced that's OK because we're not adding anything
at all.
So that's it that's a pretty simple implementation of that checking account.
Now let's take a look at the trust account.
So here we have our trust account and you can see that the trust account is derived publicly from a
savings account and that's because a trust account has a name a balance and an interest rate.
So one of the savings account behavior will be perfect for that.
I'm overloading the insertion operator here for a trust account as usual.
And now this code looks a little lengthier And the reason for that is all these constants here.
They're handy right.
Here's our default balance Here's a default interest rate you probably could make that 2 or 3 percent
or something just to get some more interesting results.
But I'll leave it at zero.
There's the bonus amount for a deposit that's over $5000.
There's the threshold that's 5000 thousand the maximum withdrawals has three in the most we can withdraw
is 20 percent of the account's value.
So all that information is right in here and these constants.
And the only thing that the trustee account really adds is besides the business logic of course.
Is this attribute right here the number of withdrawals.
So it will set that to zero when we create a trust account object.
And then every time we do a withdrawal that's successful we'll bump it up by one.
And then when we do a withdrawal and it's greater than 3 we'll just fail right there.
Pretty simple.
OK so here's my constructor.
It expects as usual a name a balance and an interest rate you can see that right there and it's got
these defaults right up here that it defaults to.
Here's my deposit which I obviously need to override because I get a $50 bonus whenever I deposit $5000
or more.
And here's my withdraw which again I need to override because our business logic says I'm only allowed
a maximum of three withdrawals per year and each one is up to a maximum of 20 percent of the account's
value or balance.
OK so that's it.
Let's take a look at the implementation file now.
And here's the implementation file for the trust account.
You can see our constructor is up here.
We're again we're receiving the name the balance and the interest rate and all of those guys are really
in my savings account part.
Right.
So I'm invoking my base class constructor right here and I'm passing in name balance and interest rate.
Let it take care of initializing itself when I come back.
I do need to take care of my attribute which is number of withdrawals.
So this is my responsibility and I'm setting that to zero right here.
OK so now let's take a look at the deposit.
So here's the trust account deposit method.
Again it expects an amount and all I'm looking for is that bonus threshold which is $5000.
So if the amount deposited is greater than or equal to that bonus threshold which again in this case
is 5000 then we're just incrementing the amount to deposit by the bonus amount which is the $50.
Simple as that.
I invoke my base classes deposit method has a savings account knows how to deal with the interest rate
and the deposit and I'm returning right here what it returns to me.
And then the last thing we'll do is I'll withdraw method again.
The withdraw method is important because it's got some business logic here.
So I want to check in again here is the amount that I want to withdraw.
So if the number of withdrawals is greater than or equal to the max withdrawals which was that constant
which was three or the amount to withdraw is greater than the balance times the threshold right.
So that's the 20 percent right here.
If either one of those guys is true we don't do that with the withdrawal we return false otherwise we
increment the number of withdrawals and we call our savings account withdraw method and pass in the
account and pass in the amount to withdraw.
So that said you can see that we really aren't writing a lot of new code we're specializing we're tweaking
we're we're refining if you will our behavior based on our business logic and the last thing is this
overloaded insertion operator for a trust account.
In this case I'm also display the number of withdrawals just so that we have that information.
Okay so that's the trust account.
So we've got our two new accounts in the hierarchy now.
So the next thing I want to show you is that account Udal file and the functions that are modified in
there.
So let's look at the changes I made to the account Udal files and you can see that right here I've added
the function prototypes for the checking account class and a trust account class.
You can see that all this code is really really really similar.
And you're going to love what's going to happen in the next section we're going to be able to get rid
of all of this and just create one version that works for all of the accounts once we use polymorphic
functions.
But for now let's just do it this way so that we really understand what's going on.
Again remember we're doing static binding right now so the compiler is binding.
The method calls to the actual types of the objects that its season at compile time.
So there are the function prototypes for these guys.
It's very similar to what we did before and the implementation Farnan here.
Same idea I'll just scroll down just a little bit and you can see here are the helper functions for
the checking account class right here on line 64.
And if we scroll down a little bit further we've got to help her functions for the trust account class.
And as I said they're all exactly the same except what's inside that vector.
OK so now let's look at domain.
Finally here's the main and the beginning is exactly the same as it was before right.
And you remember we had the accounts tests right here.
We put in some account objects into a vector of accounts and then we called display deposit and withdraw
for those accounts.
We did that both for a regular account and a savings account here and now we're just going to do the
same thing again for a checking account so you can see here I'm creating a vector of checking account
objects right.
That's my template argument right here checking account and it's check accounts and I'm creating an
empty checking account one for current one for Spock and one for bone's Let's say I don't want to give
Spock to accounts and that's it.
We're going to call display for check accounts deposit 0 0 0 0 and that to each one of those accounts
and withdraw from those accounts 2000.
And then finally we're going to do the trust account and the trust account.
Same idea.
I'm going to have a vector of trust to count objects and I'm going to create four of them again to construct
this one with no initialization just like I've done before.
And then we'll create Eiffel's Porthos and Aramis the three musketeers and we'll create some accounts
for them.
We'll display them deposit into them and withdraw from them just like we did before.
And then the last thing I'm doing is I'm simply calling withdraw five times some looping five times
and I'm calling with draw on those trust accounts so I expect those to fail right because I'm only allowed
to withdraw three times maximum and I can only withdraw 20 percent of the ballots so I should see a
lot of failures here.
So let's run this.
And there's going to be a lot about pot to go through and you can see we have a clean compile no errors
no warnings.
And I'll scroll up here because there's a lot about pot to go through.
And this is the this is what we had earlier right when we created just the regular accounts here.
We created four of them.
Larry Moe Curly and an unnamed account write a pop.
We're going to display them.
That's what you're seeing right here.
Then we're going to deposit a thousand into them and that's this piece you see right here depositing
two accounts and then we're withdrawing 2000 from them and that's the piece you see right here.
The first to fail because there is insufficient funds.
So that's pretty straightforward.
That's exactly what the default code was in the challenge.
So is this here's my savings accounts and you just scroll up to so you can see that right here.
So we're creating those for savings accounts for Superman Batman and Wonder Woman.
There they are when we display them we're depositing a thousand dollars into them here and then be withdrawing
2000.
So of course the first two will fail because there's insufficient funds.
Just like before.
Now here's the checking the checking is a little different now because our withdrawal methods add a
dollar fifty service fee or a per check fee right.
So here we've got a checking account for an unnamed checking account.
We've got spoke spunk and bones and you can see them right here.
Right here is our display.
There's a name checking account with zero balance.
There is Kerch zero balance Spock and Bones 2000 5000 respectively.
I'm depositing a thousand dollars into each account and then I'm going to withdraw 2000 from each account
exactly the same as we've done before.
So the first two are going to fail.
And you can see that the numbers now are a little different right because we are subtracting the dollar
50 per check fee here.
And these two don't because the withdrawal failed.
But in this case we did withdraw.
So we're assessing the dollar 50 fee.
So you could see that indeed the specialized withdraw method is being called now.
Finally we've got the trustee accounts so there is a code for the trust accounts and I'll scroll that
up right about there.
So here I'm creating IPOs Porthos and Aramis and an unnamed trustee account right here at the beginning
and we're creating some different balances as well as interest rates.
And then we're just displaying the accounts and that's what you're seeing here right.
The unnamed trustee account with zero balance zero percent interest rate has no withdrawals yet.
Here's offas Porthos and Aramis and you can see their information right here.
Notice how all of them have zero withdrawals because we set that in our constructor.
Now we're going to call deposit on each one of them and deposit the thousand dollars.
You could see that that's successful all the way through.
You can also see that we've got the bonus coming in here.
So finally we withdraw $3000 from each account the first two will fail the first one because we don't
have sufficient funds.
The second one because we are exceeding our 20 percent limit.
But the third and fourth one are no problem at all you notice the withdrawals here are now one whereas
the withdrawals on the failed ones are zero.
And then what I'm doing is I'm just calling that same withdraw function five times.
So there's once right here you can see the number of withdrawals increasing and increasing and finally
everything fails as we expect right here because we've exceeded the three withdrawals.
OK so that's it.
I'm sure your solution is different from mine and that's OK.
Take a look at my solution maybe yours is better if it's better post it if you find a bug in mine let
me know please and I'll be glad to fix it.
So I hope you enjoyed this challenge.
I hope you understand a lot about inheritance in the next section.
We're going to crank up the level in inheritance and we're going to talk about polymorphic functions
with inheritance.
And that's going to make all of this even easier.
So stay tuned for that.